                Configuring Reports in Rivendell

Following are some filter-specific notes concerning configuring
reports in Rivendell:


CBSI DeltaFlex
Report files should be named according to the following scheme:

       <ii><yy><mm><dd>.201

where:
  <ii> -- the two digit Station ID of the corresponding CBSI system.
          This same value should be set in the 'Station ID' field of the
          report configuration.
 
  <yy> -- The last two digits of the year.

  <mm> -- The two digit month, in the range 01 - 12.

  <dd> -- The two digit day, in the range 01 - 31.

Thus, for example, for a system with a station ID of '01', the name
part of the export path would be:  '01%y%m%d.201'.


ASCAP/BMI Electronic Music Reports
Sometimes also known as the "Paris" format, these reports can be
directly submitted to ASCAP/BMI as part of their EMR (Electronic Music
Reporting) initiatives.  For more information, see:

	   http://www.ascap.com/licensing/radio/
	   http://emr.bmi.com/

When setting up generation of an ASCAP/BMI Music Report, output files
should be named in the scheme:

   <id><yy><mm>.emr

where:
  <id> -- Your identifier string (assigned by ASCAP/BMI).  Normally,
          this will be a station's call letters.

  <yy> -- The last two digits of the year for the data covered in the
          report.

  <mm> -- The two digit month for the data covered in the report, in
          the range 01 - 12.

Thus, for a station called 'WAVA', the 'Station ID' box in the Edit
Report dialog would be set to 'WAVA', and the name part of the export
path would be:  'wava%y%m.emr'.

You will also need to specify a 'Station Type' and 'Station Format'
for the report.  'Station Type' is self-explanatory, while 'Station
Format' is simply a phrase describing the programming format of the
station --e.g. "Jazz", "Top Country", etc.
 
Another setting that will effect any Music Reports generated is the
'Usage' field on the Cart Label in RDLibrary.  You should set the
value for each cart to best reflect the use that is made of the
material in it.

Music Reports are customarily generated on a monthly basis, so when
generating one in RDLogManger, be sure to select the first and last
days of the month in question for the 'Start Date' and 'End Date'
respectively, otherwise the resulting report may not include all of
the relevant playout activity.


SoundExchange Statutory License Report
This report can be imported into a spreadsheet program (such as
OpenOffice.org or Excel) and then saved as an 'XLS' file, which can then be
directly submitted to SoundExchange to satisfy their reporting
requirements for streaming music on the Internet.  When configuring
the report in RDAdmin->ManageReports, fill in the fields as follows:

Station ID:	The "Name of Service" as assigned by SoundExchange.
		This will normally be the name of the entity operating
		the service -- e.g. "SALEM COMMUNICATIONS".

Service Name:	The "Channel Name" of the service, as assigned by
		SoundExchange.  For radio staions, this will normally be
		the station's call letters -- e.g. "WAVA-FM".

Station Format:	The "Transmission Category" of the service.  This is
		a single-letter code assigned by the U.S. Copyright
		Office.  For a list of possible values, see:  
		http://www.copyright.gov/fedreg/2004/69fr11515.pdf

When generating a report in RDLogManager->ManageReports, the system
will prompt for an 'Aggreggate Tuning Hours (ATH)' value for the
report period.  This is a measure of the total amount of listenership
to the audio stream, and can normally be obtained from your streaming
provider.
